# documentation.kii.com


## Before starting.

Before starting please read about
[Jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki).

To execute jekyll on your PC, which require:

*   [ruby 1.9.3-p392 or above](http://www.ruby-lang.org/): 2.0.0-p0 recommended
    to free from stress.
*   jekyll and redcarpet
*   [python 2.7.4 or above](http://python.org/)

### Install instruction.

1.  Install ruby.

    For Windows:  use [RubyInstaller](http://rubyinstaller.org/).  Install ruby
    core and devkit.

    For others: See your OS package system.

2.  Install jekyll and redcarpet.

    ```
    $ gem install jekyll
    $ gem install redcarpet
    ```

    For Windows: recommended to downgrade directory\_watcher module.

    ```
    $ gem install directory_watcher -v 1.4.1
    $ gem uninstall directory_watcher -v 1.5.1
    ```

3.  Install python.

    It is used by syntax highlighting (pygment.rb)

## Usage

Just type `jekyll`.  It generate/update all files into `_site/` directory.  It
tooks several times (maximum about 1min).  To release those, transfer all files
in `_site/` to public server.

To see your changes on local machine try this.

for jekyll 1.0 or above

    $ jekyll server --watch

for jekyll 0.12

    $ jekyll --auto --server

Then open http://127.0.0.1:4000/ by using your favorite WEB browser.


## Editing work flow.

Please check files and directories and files under `en/` and `ja/` directories.

Here are some explanations to help you understand how to edit pages.

**Importatnt: Be sure that all files are saved with LF line ending (UNIX style).**


### YAML header

YAML header should be includes:

*   layout (mandatory)
*   title (mandatory)
*   sort-priority (option)
*   page-id (option)

#### layout

use `en-doc` for English, use `ja-doc` for Japanese.

#### sort-priority

The number used as a referece for sorting pages in the same directory.  The pages will be aligned in the left side navigator in an ascending order based on this sort-priority number.

#### page-id

Make page references abstract, we use `page-id` in YAML header for the most of
pages.  

`page-id` consists two or three parts:

    {platform}-{title}-{language}

      or

    {title}-{language}

Each part should not contain `-` characters.  

An example of two parts `page-id` (from `en/guides.mkd`):

```yaml
---
layout: en-doc
title: Guides
page-id: guides-en
sort-priority: 20
---
```

An example of three parts `page-id` (from `en/starts/android.mkd`):

```yaml
---
layout: en-doc
title: Android Quick Start
sort-priority: 10
page-id: android-quickstart-en
---
```


### Contents

Write the contents using regular Markdown syntax.

#### Referring to other pages

Use `{% page_link {page-id} %}` or `{% page_url {page-id} %}`.

`page_link` is expanded to:

```html
<a href="{URL of the target page}">{title of the target page}</a>
```

See `en/samples.mkd` for an example of how to use `page_link`.

`page_url` is expanded to:

```
{URL of the target page}
```

See `en.html` for an example of `page_url`.page_url


## Deploying the pages to documentation.kii.com

Simply upload everything inside `_site`.  You can use the helper script for this.

for jekyll 1.0 or above

    $ jekyll build
    $ sh scripts/sync.sh

for jekyll 0.12

    $ jekyll
    $ sh scripts/sync.sh


Note that you need to know the password.

## Tips

* For generating REST documents from WADL files, use the WADL parsing and representation library provided at <https://github.com/c0ze/kii-ruby-wadl>.

## Others

### Layout tree

*   \_layouts/default.html
    *   \_layouts/en.html
        *   \_layout/en-doc.html
        *   \_layout/rest-api.html
    *   \_layouts/ja.html
        *   \_layouts/ja-doc.html

### Helper scripts

#### Generated Pages Uploader

for jekyll 1.0 or above

    $ jekyll build
    $ sh scripts/sync.sh

#### Symmetrical Files Checker

    $ sh scripts/symmetrical_check.sh en ja

    $ sh scripts/symmetrical_check.sh en/starts/android en/starts/ios

    $ sh scripts/symmetrical_check.sh {dir1} {dir2}
