---
layout: en-doc
title: '"Push to User" Notification'
page-id: android-push_to_user-en
sort-priority: 10
---
"Push to User" notification provides a means to push messages with a publisher-subscriber model.  The feature will let you and your app users quickly send messages to other users while providing a way to scope to whom the messages are sent.

## How "Push to User" notification works

Simply put, Kii "Push to User" notification works as follows:

1. Someone creates a new **"Topic"**.
2. Other people **"subscribe"** to this topic.
3. Someone sends a message to the topic.  This message is pushed to all subscribers.

Keywords here are "topic" and "subscribe".  The topic acts as a channel for sending push messages.  Users who have interest in a certain topic can get the message sent to the topic by subscribing to the topic.

## Topic and its scope

A topic can have either one of the following scopes.

* **Application Scope**: The topic belongs to an application (application developer).
 * Only an application developer can create a topic with this scope.
 * Any authenticated users (i.e., application users) can subscribe to the topic.
 * Only an application developer can send push messages to the topic.
* **Group Scope**: The topic belongs to a specific user group.
 * Any group member can create a topic with this scope.
 * All group members can subscribe to the topic.
 * All group members can send push messages to the topic.
* **User scope**: The topic belongs to a specific user.
 * Any user can create a topic with this scope.
 * Only this user can subscribe to the topic.
 * Only this user can send push message to this topic. 

Please note that these are the default rules.  You can tweak the rules by applying ACL entries (white list entries) onto a topic. Please refer ["Set a Topic's ACL"]({% page_url android-push_to_user_setting_acl-en %}) for the details.

## ”Push to User" three sample scenarios

Let us explore three typical scenarios that are achievable with the "Push to User" feature.

### Scenario #1: "Broadcasting to all app user"

In this scenario, we as an app developers want to have a channel to send broadcast messages to our application users.

For this purpose, we will create and leverage an application-scope topic as follows:

1. Create an app-scope topic as an app admin.
2. Implement our application so that it will subscribe to this topic when the app is launched at the first time.
3. Everything is set!  When we want to send a broadcast message, we can do this on the Developer Portal; we just select the topic and send the message to the topic.

### Scenario #2: "Group messaging"

In this scenario, we want our app users to enjoy group messaging by allowing them to dynamically create topics for the message exchange.

Here we will leverage a group-scope topic as follows:

1. An app user creates a user group and invite his/her friends to the group.
(refer ["Managing Groups"]({% page_url android-managing_groups-en %}) for how to realize this).
2. The app user creates a new topic that belongs to this group.
3. The user asks the group members to subscribe to this topic.
4. Done!  Any group members can now push a message to group members by sending the message to the topic.

### Scenario #3: "Pushing my TODO items to all devices"

In this scenario, we want to provide a means to push private messages to all devices. For example, we want to allow an application user to push her TODO items from one device; these items will be pushed to all her devices so that she will be able to check her TODO list on any devices.

Here we will leverage a group-scope topic as follows:

1. An application user creates a user-scope topic.
2. The application user subscribe herself to this topic. She does this on all her devices.
3. Done! When she pushes a message to this topic, the message will be pushed to all her devices.

<HR>

Here are the detailed steps for leveraging "Push to User" notification.

* [Create a topic]({% page_url android-push_to_user_creating_topic-en %})
* [Subscribe/Unsubscribe a topic]({% page_url android-push_to_user_subscribing_topic-en %})
* [Checking for a subscription]({% page_url android-push_to_user_checking_subscription-en %})
* [Send messages]({% page_url android-push_to_user_sending_messages-en %})
* [Receive messages]({% page_url android-push_to_user_receiving_messages-en %})
* [Set a Topic's ACL]({% page_url android-push_to_user_setting_acl-en %})