---
layout: en-doc
title: 'Tutorial #4: Create new income/expense entries'
summary: 'Kii Balance allows users to create new income/expense entries by pressing "Add" button.  Those entries are to be uploaded and stored to Kii Cloud.'
sort-priority: 50
page-id: tutorial_4_create_new_income_expense_entries-en
old-url: /en/tutorial-4-create-new-income-expense-entries
---
Kii Balance uses an Object with the following fields to save each income/expense entry (ref.Field.java):

* **name**: The name of the income/expense.
* **type**: The type of the entry (1 for income, 2 for expense).
* **amount**: The amount of the income/expense (in cents)

Additionally, there are some predefined fields that will be automatically
attached to the Object.  Please check
{% page_link tutorial_3_retrieve_income_expense_entry-en %}
to see how we leverage the predefined field `_created` to sort the list of
income/expense entries.

Creating a new Object is fairly simple.  We just need to set field values in
the object and ask the client SDK to save it, as shown in the following code
snippet from
[ItemEditDialogFragment.java](https://github.com/KiiPlatform/KiiBalance-Android/blob/master/src/com/kii/sample/balance/list/ItemEditDialogFragment.java#L173).

```java
private void createObject(DialogFragment fragment) {

  (...snip...)

  // Create an Object instance
  KiiUser user = KiiUser.getCurrentUser();
  KiiBucket bucket = user.bucket(Constants.BUCKET_NAME);
  KiiObject object = bucket.object();

  object.set(Field.NAME, name);
  object.set(Field.TYPE, type);
  object.set(Field.AMOUNT, amount * 100 + subAmount);

  (...snip...)

  AddCallback callback = new AddCallback(target, null);
  object.save(callback);

}
```

Let us see the snippet in details.  

1. Create a target bucket instance by invoking `bucket` method with its name.
2. Invoke `object` method to create an Object instance in the bucket.  At this point, this Object instance has no key-value.
3. Set key-values pairs in the Object by invoking `set` method.
4. Invoke `save` method to ask the client sdk to upload the Object to Kii Cloud.

Note that we are using an asynchronous API by specifying a callback function (ref. *AddCallback.java*) as a parameter.

----
### Next up...

Oops, seems that users mistyped something and want to update or delete the entries.  

Moving to {% page_link tutorial_5_update_and_delete_entries-en %}.

#### Or want to learn more?

* Want to learn more on what you can put in an Object?  
  * Check {% page_link android-object_storages-en %} section.
* Want to send a push notification when a new Object is created? 
  * Check {% page_link android-object_storages_push-en %} section.
