---
layout: en-doc
title: Managing Push Notifications
sort-priority: 50
page-id: ios-managing_push-en
old-url: /en/managing-push-notification--2
---
Kii Cloud supports the following three types of push notifications.

* **"Push to App"** notification: This mechanism will let your applications
  know when a new event occurred on the Cloud; for example, your apps will be
  able to get a push notification when a new Object is created in a bucket.  
  Please check ['Receiving "Push to App" Notification']({% page_url ios-object_storages_push-en %})
  section for more details.

* **"Push to User"** notification: This mechanism will let you and your
  application users quickly send messages to other users; for example, you
  application users will be able to exchange push messages among their group
  members  
  Please refer ['"Push to User" Notification']({% page_url ios-push_to_user-en %})
  section for more details.

* **"Direct Push"** notification: This mechanism will let you reach directly to
  your application users; for example, you will be able to directly send an
  alert message to a certain user.
  Please refer ['"Direct Push" Notification']({% page_url ios-direct_push-en %})
  section for more details.

## Preparation for Leveraging Push Notifications

### Configuring Your Application

To leverage Push notification features, you need to configure your application
accordingly on the developer portal.  Check
["iOS Quick Start - Adding Kii Cloud SDK to Your Application"]({% page_url ios-adding_kii_cloud_to_your_application-en %})
section to check how you can configure your application. 

### Installing User Devices

In order for Kii Cloud to deliver push messages to a user device, your
application needs to install the device to Kii Cloud by sending the
corresponding device token assigned by APNS server.

Here is a sample snippet for installing a device to Kii Cloud.  In the snippet,
we are setting a device token obtained from the APNS server.

```objc
 // Handling APNS registration response, add this method if it is not available.
- (void)application:(UIApplication *)application didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken:(NSData *)deviceToken {
  // Hold deviceToken into Kii shared instance
  [Kii setAPNSDeviceToken:deviceToken];

  // Install a Device to Kii Cloud
  NSError *error = nil;
  KiiPushInstallation *installation = [KiiPushInstallation installSynchronous:&error];

  if (error != nil) {
    NSLog(@"Installation failed : %@", error);
  } else {
    NSLog(@"Installation succeeded");
  }
}
```

Once invoked, the device token will be saved on Kii Cloud.  If the device token
is already registered on Kii Cloud, the registration will fail.

