---
layout: en-doc
title: Flex Analytics
sort-priority: 20
old-url: /en/flex-analytics
---
Flex Analytics allows you to define your custom metrics. You will be able to define your metrics based on the data generated by your application, with the flexibility of letting you freely define facts and dimensions.

Your metrics can be based on the following two data sources:

* **App Data**: Object data created by your application. You can use any key-values in Object for defining your custom metrics.
* **Event Data**: Data thrown by your application besides from application data. Kii Analytics provides you a feature to throw such event data with arbitrary key-values.


## Sample Scenarios

### AppData FlexAnalytics example

* The game application uses Objects to store user's highest score like this:<br />```{ "Score" : 100,  "Level" : "Easy" , "AppVersion" : 1 }```
 * A key **"Score"** having an integer value representing the user's score
 * A key **"Level"** having a string value representing the user's level ("Easy", "Normal", "Hard")
 * A key **"AppVersion"** having an integer value representing the version of the application (1, 2, 3, ...)

* Now, we want to check how well our users are playing.   Based on the above application data, we want to check the following metrics:
 * **Metric #1**: Average of **"Score"**, sliced by **"Level"** and **"AppVersion"**.
 * **Metric #2**: Total count of data (i.e., total score data uploaded), sliced by **"Score"**, **"Level"** and **"AppVersion"**.


### Event Data FlexAnalytics example

* The application is to send an event data with the following fields upon the installation.<BR />This Event Data is named **"MyUser"**:
 * **"gender"** ... String (M or F)
 * **"city"** ... String (San Francisco, Dallas, New York, ...)
 * **"location"** ... String (UK, EU, JP, ...)
 * **"children"** ... Int (0, 1,2,3, ...)
 * **"age"** ... Int (18, 20, 42, 44, ...)

* Based on these event data, we want to check the following metrics:
 * **Metric #1**: Average of **"age"** sliced by **"city"**, **"location"**, **"gender"** and **"children"**.
 * **Metric #2**: Count of users (i.e., count of event data) sliced by **"gender"**, **"city"**, **"location"**, **"children"** and **"age"**.